---
layout: 			post
title:       	  "大数据时代的系统结构与创新技术论坛及研讨会"
dtitle:      	  "大数据时代的系统结构与创新技术论坛及研讨会"
time: 		  	  "09:00"
address:	  	  "重庆大学主教504会议室"
campus:	  	  "A"
speaker:	   	  "Ahmed Louri，IEEEFellow，Edwin Sha ，李涛，邵子立"
speaker-profile: "Dr. Ahmed Louri is the David and Marilyn Karlgaard Professor and the Chairman of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering in the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at The George Washington University. Dr. Ahmed Louri received the M.S and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Engineering from the University of Southern California, Los Angeles in 1984 and 1988 respectively. Prior to joining GWU in August 2015, he was a Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Director of the High-Performance Computing Architectures and Technologies Laboratory at the University of Arizona from 1988 to 2015. Dr. Louri chaired the Computer Engineering Program of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at the University of Arizona from 2000 to 2006."
speaker-img:	  "http://externie.com/nophoto.png"
organizer:		  "计算机学院"
co-organizer:	  ""
category:		  "其它"
author:		  "计算机学院 申卫洁"
editorInCharge:  "申卫洁"
---
报告一：Power-Efficient and Reliable Network-on-Chips for Scalable Multicore Architectures
  主讲人：Ahmed Louri，IEEEFellow，美国乔治华盛顿大学讲习教授，电子计算机工程系主任
   报告摘要：
  Today’s microprocessor designers have resorted to increasing the number of cores per die as a power-efficient approach to performance improvement, leading to the Chip Multiprocessors (CMPs) or the multicore era. Both industrial and academic roadmaps project that hundreds to thousands of general-purpose tera-op CMPs will be needed within a decade in order to satisfy future needs for high-performance computing.
  The proliferation of multiple cores on the same die heralded the advent of a communication-centric, rather than computation-centric systems, to the forefront of computing design wherein the design of the on-chip interconnect fabric connecting various modules, namely the processing cores, cache banks, and memory units, has become extremely important. Further, the continuing scaling of technology has accentuated the on-chip interconnect problem since global wire delays do not scale down as fast as gate delays. To address the growing wire delay problems and improve the performance, a growing number of multicore designs have adopted a more flexible and scalable packet-switched architecture called Network-on-Chip (NoC) architectures. As the number of cores on the chip keeps growing to satisfy power and performance scaling, the NoC design has become the most critical element to achieving the performance potential of future CMPs. Among the challenges facing current NoC design, power dissipation and reliability have been identified as the most critical ones.
  In this talk, I will first discuss several research challenges facing multicore architectures and NoC design. Next I will present some of our ongoing efforts to address these issues using architectural innovations as well as a synergistic mix of emerging interconnect technologies. The talk will conclude with pointers to some future research directions in this area
  报告二：The  work to Design the Most Efficient In-Memory Storage System
  主讲人：Edwin Sha （沙行勉)，“千人计划”特聘教授，重庆大学计算机学院院长
   报告摘要：
  This talk will discuss, from the perspective of system software, how to design the most efficient in-memory storage system, in particular files system and data  system. As the emerging technologies of persistent memory, like PCM, MRAM, provide opportunities for preserving data in memory, traditional storage system structures may need re-studying and re-designing. The talk will present a  work  d on a new concept that each file has its own ``Virtual Address Space.&quot; A file system, Sustainable In-Memory File System (SIMFS), is then designed and fully implemented. The experiments show that SIMFS is the fastest in-memory file system. This  work has lots of potential to explore; some new optimization techniques are further designed. We also briefly present the most efficient index structures we recently developed for NVM- d relational data . All of the results give the best known ones in literatures.
  报告三：Innovating Next Generation Computer Architecture in Big Data Era: Think Big, See Small
  主讲人：李涛，美国佛罗里达大学教授，海外杰青
   报告摘要：
  Computer architecture forms the foundation of society’s information technology. This foundation, which was laid several decades ago, is facing grand challenges today as power limits and reduced semiconductor reliability make it increasingly more difficult to leverage CMOS scaling, and the shift towards data centers, big data and cloud computing will include sustainability requirements for traditional architectures. At the same time, there are emerging technologies such as green and clean energy computing, scalable memory devices, advanced integration and interconnect methodologies that can be game-changers in the future. A new plethora of computer architectures can be built by exploiting innovative concepts, mechanisms and implementations that take advantages of these emerging technologies while addressing new design challenges in big data era.
  In this talk, I will address the opportunities and challenges of integrating renewable energy technologies that enable high-performance and sustainable computer and data center architectures. Designing renewable energy driven computer systems poses various challenges in terms of intelligent control strategies for better energy utilization, optimizations for reducing overhead, and improving reliability. I will discuss new mechanisms for data centers that can achieve high efficiency and dependability in utilizing renewable energy. Moreover, I will address the challenges and opportunities of fully exploiting the potential of emerging phase-change memory technologies to improve computer system memory performance, power-efficiency and reliability for big data applications. Although technology scaling and advanced material engineering provide smaller and denser devices, they make achieving these design goals increasingly challenging. I will introduce holistic and cross-  design approaches that leverage nano-scale CMOS fabrication technologies, emerging integration methodologies and advanced material engineering.
  报告四：Bridging Semantic Gaps in Key-Value Storage Systems with Software-Defined SSDs
  主讲人：邵子立，香港理工大学副教授，电子计算学系副主任
   报告摘要：
  Key-value (KV) stores become critical as they are one of the most important building blocks in modern web infrastructures and high-performance data-intensive applications. For example, KV storage systems such as Memcached and Redis have been widely adopted as web   cache in data -driven web systems, and KV stores are also the backbone technique in large-scale distributed NoSQL data s such as LevelDB at Google, Dynamo at Amazon, and Cassandra at Apache. In KV stores, fast, predictable KV access latency is the key performance indicator. However, grand challenges are posted for KV stores to achieve this, particularly when handling real-time applications such as high-frequency trading, online advertising, and online TVs/gaming.
  In this talk, I will present our recent work in optimizing flash- d key-value cache systems. In particular, I will discuss how to bridge the semantic gap between hardware/software by directly opening device-level details to key-value cache systems. In this way, we can leverage the domain knowledge of key-value caches and the unique device-level properties, so as to maximize the efficiency of a key-value cache system on flash devices while minimizing its weakness.
  欢迎各位老师、同学参加，并针对有关问题现场提问!
